+++
title = "Statistical Methods in Functional Genomics"
date = "2019-07-01"
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2019-07-01T09:00:00
# time_end = 2030-06-01T15:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Sean Davis"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In a series of talks and exercises, I cover introduction to R, Bioconductor, genomic ranges, container classes, annotation of genes and regions, ATAC-Seq data analysis, and an introduction to machine learning."

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "Statistical Methods in Functional Genomics"
event_url = "https://meetings.cshl.edu/courses.aspx?course=C-DATA&year=19"

# Location of event.
location = "Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["CSHL"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["teaching", "bioinformatics", "Bioconductor", "genomics"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = "https://seandavi.github.com/ITR/"
url_video = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/seandavi/ITR"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
+++

