+++
title = "A methyl-deviator epigenotype of estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinoma is associated with malignant biology"
date = 2011-07-01
authors = ["J. K. Killian", "S. Bilke", "S. Davis", "R. L. Walker", "E. Jaeger", "M. S. Killian", "J. J. Waterfall", "M. Bibikova", "J. B. Fan", "W. I. Smith", "P. S. Meltzer"]
publication_types = ["2"]
abstract = "We broadly profiled DNA methylation in breast cancers (n = 351) and benign parenchyma (n = 47) for correspondence with disease phenotype, using FFPE diagnostic surgical pathology specimens. Exploratory analysis revealed a distinctive primary invasive carcinoma subclass featuring extreme global methylation deviation. Subsequently, we tested the correlation between methylation remodeling pervasiveness and malignant biological features. A methyl deviation index (MDI) was calculated for each lesion relative to terminal ductal-lobular unit baseline, and group comparisons revealed that high-grade and short-survival estrogen receptor-positive (ER(+)) cancers manifest a significantly higher MDI than low-grade and long-survival ER(+) cancers. In contrast, ER(-) cancers display a significantly lower MDI, revealing a striking epigenomic distinction between cancer hormone receptor subtypes. Kaplan-Meier survival curves of MDI-based risk classes showed significant divergence between low- and high-risk groups. MDI showed superior prognostic performance to crude methylation levels, and MDI retained prognostic significance (P < 0.01) in Cox multivariate analysis, including clinical stage and pathological grade. Most MDI targets individually are significant markers of ER(+) cancer survival. Lymphoid and mesenchymal indexes were not substantially different between ER(+) and ER(-) groups and do not explain MDI dichotomy. However, the mesenchymal index was associated with ER(+) cancer survival, and a high lymphoid index was associated with medullary carcinoma. Finally, a comparison between metastases and primary tumors suggests methylation patterns are established early and maintained through disease progression for both ER(+) and ER(-) tumors."
selected = "false"
publication = "*Am. J. Pathol.*"
+++

